blog post about falcosidekick + kubeless / fix blog post about falcos… (#354)
falcosecurity/falco-website: content/en/blog/falcosidekick-kubeless.md

---
title: Falcosidekick + Kubeless = a Kubernetes Response Engine
date: 2021-01-15
author: Thomas Labarussias
---

Two years ago, we presented to you a `Kubernetes Response Engine` based on `Falco`. The idea was to trigger [`Kubeless`](https://kubeless.io) serverless functions for deleting infected pod, start a `Sysdig` capture or forward the `events` to `GCP PubSub`. See the [README](https://github.com/falcosecurity/kubernetes-response-engine).

> To avoid maintaining this custom stack, we worked hard with the community for integrating all components into [`Falcosidekick`](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcosidekick) and improving the UX. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid maintaining this custom stack, we worked hard with the community to integrate all components into [`Falcosidekick`](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcosidekick) and to improve the UX. 
```

> For avoiding to maintain this custom stack, we worked hard with the community for integrating all components into [`Falcosidekick`](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcosidekick) and improving the UX. 

Reviewer 2: "To avoid maintaining this custom stack"

> With the last release [`2.20.0`](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcosidekick/releases/tag/2.20.0) we have the finale piece, the integration of `Kubeless` as native output. More details in [our restropective of 2020](https://falco.org/blog/falcosidekick-2020/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the last release [`2.20.0`](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcosidekick/releases/tag/2.20.0) we have the final piece, the integration of `Kubeless` as native output. More details in [our retrospective of 2020](https://falco.org/blog/falcosidekick-2020/).
```

> In this blog post, I'll explain you the basic concepts for integrating your own Response Engine into K8S with the stack `Falco` + `Falcosidekick` + `Kubeless`.

Reviewer 2: "we will explain the basic concepts"

## Requirements

> We need a `kubernetes` cluster running at least `1.17` release and [`helm`](https://helm.sh) and `kubectl` installed.

Reviewer 2: we "require"

## Install Kubeless

> We just follow the official [quick start](https://kubeless.io/docs/quick-start/) page:

Reviewer 2: "Follow the official"

```shell
export RELEASE=$(curl -s https://api.github.com/repos/kubeless/kubeless/releases/latest | grep tag_name | cut -d '"' -f 4)
kubectl create ns kubeless
kubectl create -f https://github.com/kubeless/kubeless/releases/download/$RELEASE/kubeless-$RELEASE.yaml
```

> After few seconds, we can check that the controller is up and running :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After a few seconds, we can check that the controller is up and running:
```

```

In a real project, you should get the whole chart with `helm pull falcosecurity/falco --untar` and then configure the `values.yaml`. For this tutorial, will try to keep thing as easy as possible and set configs directly by `helm install` command:

```shell
helm install falco falcosecurity/falco --set falco.jsonOutput=true --set falco.httpOutput.enabled=true --set falco.httpOutput.url=http://falcosidekick:2801 -n falco
```

You should get this output:

```shell
NAME: falco
LAST DEPLOYED: Thu Jan 14 23:43:46 2021
NAMESPACE: falco
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 1
TEST SUITE: None
NOTES:
Falco agents are spinning up on each node in your cluster. After a few
seconds, they are going to start monitoring your containers looking for
security issues.
No further action should be required.
```

And you can see your new `Falco` pods:

```shell
kubectl get pods -n falco
NAME                           READY   STATUS        RESTARTS   AGE
falco-ctmzg                    1/1     Running       0          111s
falco-sfnn8                    1/1     Running       0          111s
falco-rrg28                    1/1     Running       0          111s
```

> The arguments `--set falco.jsonOutput=true --set falco.httpOutput.enabled=true --set falco.httpOutput.url=http://falcosidekick:2801` are there configuring the format of events and the URL where `Falco` will send them. As `Falco` and `Falcosidekick` will be in same namespace, we can directly use the name of service (`falcosidekick`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The arguments `--set falco.jsonOutput=true --set falco.httpOutput.enabled=true --set falco.httpOutput.url=http://falcosidekick:2801` are there configuring the format of events and the URL where `Falco` will send them. As `Falco` and `Falcosidekick` will be in the same namespace, we can directly use the name of the service (`falcosidekick`).
```

helm install falcosidekick falcosecurity/falcosidekick --set config.kubeless.namespace=kubeless --set config.kubeless.function=delete-pod -n falco
```

You should get this output:
```shell
NAME: falcosidekick
LAST DEPLOYED: Thu Jan 14 23:55:12 2021
NAMESPACE: falco
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 1
NOTES:
1. Get the application URL by running these commands:
  export POD_NAME=$(kubectl get pods --namespace falco -l "app.kubernetes.io/name=falcosidekick,app.kubernetes.io/instance=falcosidekick" -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")
  kubectl port-forward $POD_NAME 2801:2801
  echo "Visit http://127.0.0.1:2801 to use your application"
```

We check the logs:
```shell
kubectl logs deployment/falcosidekick -n falco
2021/01/14 22:55:31 [INFO]  : Enabled Outputs : Kubeless 
2021/01/14 22:55:31 [INFO]  : Falco Sidekick is up and listening on port 2801
````

`Kubeless` is displayed as enabled output, everything is good 👍.

A brief explanation of parameters:
- `config.kubeless.namespace`: is the namespace where our `Kubeless` will run
- `config.kubeless.function`: is the name of our `Kubeless function`

That's it, we really tried to get a nice UX 😉.

## Install our Kubeless function

> We'll not explain how to write or how work `Kubeless` functions, please read their [docs](https://kubeless.io/docs/) for.

Reviewer 2: please read the official docs for more information.

    - kubeless.io/function
  generation: 1
  labels:
    created-by: kubeless
    function: delete-pod
  name: delete-pod
spec:
  checksum: sha256:a68bf570ea30e578e392eab18ca70dbece27bce850a8dbef2586eff55c5c7aa0
  deps: |
    kubernetes>=12.0.1
  function-content-type: text
  function: |-
    from kubernetes import client,config

    config.load_incluster_config()

    def delete_pod(event, context):
        rule = event['data']['rule'] or None
        output_fields = event['data']['output_fields'] or None

        if rule and rule == "Terminal shell in container" and output_fields:
            if output_fields['k8s.ns.name'] and output_fields['k8s.pod.name']:
                pod = output_fields['k8s.pod.name']
                namespace = output_fields['k8s.ns.name']
                print (f"Deleting pod \"{pod}\" in namespace \"{namespace}\"")
                client.CoreV1Api().delete_namespaced_pod(name=pod, namespace=namespace, body=client.V1DeleteOptions())
  handler: delete-pod.delete_pod
  runtime: python3.7
  deployment:
    spec:
      template:
        spec:
          serviceAccountName: falco-pod-delete
EOF
```

```shell
function.kubeless.io/delete-pod created
```

> Here were, after a few moment, we have a `Kubeless` function running in namespace *kubeless* and that can be triggered by its service *delete-pod* on port *8080*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here we are, after a few moments, we have a `Kubeless` function running in namespace *kubeless* and that can be triggered by its service *delete-pod* on port *8080*:
```

```

For `Falcosidekick`:
```shell
kubectl logs deployment/falcosidekick -n falco

2021/01/14 23:39:45 [INFO]  : Kubeless - Post OK (200)
2021/01/14 23:39:45 [INFO]  : Kubeless - Function Response : 
2021/01/14 23:39:45 [INFO]  : Kubeless - Call Function "delete-pod" OK
```

*(Notice, the function returns nothing, this is why the message log is empty)*

For `delete-pod` function:
```shell
kubectl logs deployment/delete-pod -n kubeless

10.42.0.31 - - [14/Jan/2021:23:39:45 +0000] "POST / HTTP/1.1" 200 0 "" "Falcosidekick" 0/965744
Deleting pod "alpine" in namespace "default"
```

## Conclusion

With this really simple example, we only scratched the surface of possibilities, everything is possible now, so don't hesitate to share with us on Slack (https://kubernetes.slack.com #falco)

> ) your comments, ideas and successes.

Reviewer 2: we should add a comment about contributing to falco. https://github.com/falcosecurity/.github/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md
